+++
title = "Knowledge discovery using clustering analysis of rainfall timeseries"
date = 2021-04-10T17:19:28+02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["K Vantas", "E Sidiropoulos"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*European Geosciences Union General Assembly*, 2021"
publication_short = "*EGU2021*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Rainfall time series analysis using clustering involves the identification of temporal patterns, with each data item representing an individual storm. This analysis results in clusters of data items that trend in a common way and can be utilized in stochastic simulation, water resources planning and the identification of future directions due to climate change. A comparative analysis is carried out of several methods that use intra versus inter-cluster distances, for the estimation of the relevant number of clusters using a big dataset of the described rainfall time series. Visualization using topographic maps that are produced via nonlinear projection techniques is applied, to validate the presence of both distance and density structures and to assist in the final determination of the numbers of clusters. This stands in contrast to empirical and not completely data-driven approaches of the literature, in which constrained clustering."

abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["unsupervised learning", "rainfall timeseries", "nonlinear projection ", "clustering"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/EGU2019-10680.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = "pdf/present_egu2021.pdf"
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU21/EGU21-14758.html"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "EGU 2019", url = "https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU2019/posters/31247"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++